Improving the getting started section (#8334)
Particular/docs.particular.net: get-started/index.md

---
title: Getting Started
summary: Get started with NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform using these step-by-step tutorials, videos, and technical guides.
reviewed: 2026-06-15
suppressRelated: true
redirects:
- get-started/high-level-content
---

> NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform make it quick and easy to send, process, and publish messages across a wide variety of on-premises and cloud-based queuing technologies. All the low-level serialization, threading, and transaction management is handled out-of-the box. Monitoring and debugging are easy to set up thanks to ServicePulse.

Reviewer: > Monitoring and debugging are easy to set up thanks to ServicePulse.

Feels a bit out of place

> NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform make it quick and easy to send, process, and publish messages across a wide variety of on-premises and cloud-based queuing technologies. All the low-level serialization, threading, and transaction management is handled out-of-the box. Monitoring and debugging are easy to set up thanks to ServicePulse.

Reviewer: How about? This way, we are not singling out NSB.

```suggestion
The Particular Service Platform is a suite of tools for building and operating message-driven systems. NServiceBus is at its core, making it quick and easy to send, process, and publish messages across a wide variety of on-premises and cloud-based queuing technologies, with all the low-level serialization, threading, and transaction management handled out of the box.
```

> ### Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources
```

These hands-on tutorials and demos introduce NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **[NServiceBus Step-by-step](/tutorials/nservicebus-step-by-step/)** - A deeper tutorial that builds a more realistic retail e-commerce backend. You'll learn how to split responsibilities across endpoints, send commands, publish events, and use reliable messaging to recover from failures.
* **[NServiceBus Sagas](/tutorials/nservicebus-sagas/)** - A follow-on tutorial that introduces stateful message handling. You'll learn how to coordinate longer-running business processes, wait for multiple messages, delay work with timeouts, and manage workflows that unfold over time.
* **[NServiceBus Monitoring demo](/tutorials/monitoring-demo/)** - A downloadable demo that shows the monitoring features of the Particular Service Platform in ServicePulse. It includes pre-configured platform components and sample endpoints so you can explore slow handlers, message backlogs, and struggling endpoints in a running system.

> ### Learn more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more
```

> These additional resources provide a broader introduction to NServiceBus, the Particular Service Platform, and how they fit together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These additional resources provide a broader introduction to NServiceBus and the rest of the Particular Service Platform:
```
